2.4.0 Updates to DCP (#2968)
pytorch/tutorials: recipes_source/distributed_async_checkpoint_recipe.rst

Asynchronous Saving with Distributed Checkpoint (DCP)
=====================================================

Checkpointing is often a bottle-neck in the critical path for distributed training workloads, incurring larger and larger costs as both model and world sizes grow.
One excellent strategy for offsetting this cost is to checkpoint in parallel, asynchronously. Below, we expand the save example
from the `Getting Started with Distributed Checkpoint Tutorial <https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/blob/main/recipes_source/distributed_checkpoint_recipe.rst>`__
to show how this can be integrated quite easily with `torch.distributed.checkpoint.async_save`.

> 

Reviewer: Can you add a what you will learn and Prerequistes sections? You could use [cards](https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/blob/main/beginner_source/template_tutorial.py#L9-L23) for this. 
For example:

What you will learn
* How to use parallel checkpoints asynchronously
* Effective strategies to optimize performance

Prerequisites
* PyTorch 2.4 or later
* Any other prereqs like understanding of async_save or other

Notes on Asynchronous Checkpointing
------------------------------------
Before getting started with Asynchronous Checkpointing, it's important that we discuss some differences and limitations as compared to synchronous checkpointing.
Speciically:

* Memory requirements - Asynchronous checkpointing works by first copying models into internal CPU-buffers.
    This is helpful since it ensures model and optimizer weights are not changing while the model is still checkpointing,

>     but does raise CPU memory by a factor of checkpoint size times the number of process on the host.

Reviewer 2: I feel, this `checkpoint size times the number of process on the host` is ambiguous. 1) checkpoint size, is this the global checkpoint size or per-GPU checkpoint size? It is actually the per-GPU checkpoint size. 2) the number of process is also ambiguous. Can we just say the number of GPUs per host?

> * Checkpoint Management - Since checkpointing is Asynchronous, it is up to the user to manage concurrently run checkpoints. In general users can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Checkpoint Management - Since checkpointing is asynchronous, it is up to the user to manage concurrently run checkpoints. In general, users can
```

>     employ their own management strategies by handling the future object returned form `async_save`. For most users, we recommend limiting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    employ their own management strategies by handling the future object returned form ``async_save``. For most users, we recommend limiting
```

        model = ToyModel().to(rank)
        model = FSDP(model)

        loss_fn = nn.MSELoss()
        optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=0.1)

        checkpoint_future = None
        for step in range(10):
            optimizer.zero_grad()
            model(torch.rand(8, 16, device="cuda")).sum().backward()
            optimizer.step()

            # waits for checkpointing to finish if one exists, avoiding queuing more then one checkpoint request at a time
            if checkpoint_future is not None:
                checkpoint_future.result()

            state_dict = { "app": AppState(model, optimizer) }
            checkpoint_future = dcp.async_save(state_dict, checkpoint_id=f"{CHECKPOINT_DIR}_step{step}")

        cleanup()

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        world_size = torch.cuda.device_count()
        print(f"Running async checkpoint example on {world_size} devices.")
        mp.spawn(
            run_fsdp_checkpoint_save_example,
            args=(world_size,),
            nprocs=world_size,
            join=True,
        )

Even more performance with Pinned Memory
-----------------------------------------

> If the above optimization is still not performant enough, users may wish to take advantage of an additional optimization for GPU models which utilizes a pinned memory buffer for checkpoint staging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the above optimization is still not performant enough, you can take advantage of an additional optimization for GPU models which utilizes a pinned memory buffer for checkpoint staging.
```

Specifically, this optimization attacks the main overhead of asynchronous checkpointing, which is the in-memory copying to checkpointing buffers. By maintaing a pinned memory buffer between
checkpoint requests users can take advantage of direct memory access to speed up this copy.

> Note: The main drawback of this optimization is the persistence of the buffer in between checkpointing steps. Without the pinned memory optimization (as demonstrated above),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: The main drawback of this optimization technique is the persistence of the buffer between checkpointing steps. Without the pinned memory optimization (as demonstrated above),
```

> any checkpointing buffers are released as soon as checkpointing is finished. With the pinned memory implementation, this buffer is maintained in between steps, leading to the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any checkpointing buffers are released as soon as checkpointing is finished. With the pinned memory implementation, this buffer is maintained between steps, leading to the same
```

> peak memory pressure being sustained through the application life.

Reviewer 2: This somewhat mislead the main issue of using pinned memory. The main issue of using pinned memory is that CUDA driver has to allocate ``page-lock`` memory which is scarce compared to ``pageable`` memory.

        # into a persistent buffer with pinned memory enabled.
        # Note: It's important that the writer persists in between checkpointing requests, since it maintains the
        # pinned memory buffer.
        writer = StorageWriter(cached_state_dict=True)
        checkpoint_future = None
        for step in range(10):
            optimizer.zero_grad()
            model(torch.rand(8, 16, device="cuda")).sum().backward()
            optimizer.step()

            state_dict = { "app": AppState(model, optimizer) }
            if checkpoint_future is not None:
                # waits for checkpointing to finish, avoiding queuing more then one checkpoint request at a time
                checkpoint_future.result()
            dcp.async_save(state_dict, storage_writer=writer, checkpoint_id=f"{CHECKPOINT_DIR}_step{step}")

        cleanup()

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        world_size = torch.cuda.device_count()
        print(f"Running fsdp checkpoint example on {world_size} devices.")
        mp.spawn(
            run_fsdp_checkpoint_save_example,
            args=(world_size,),
            nprocs=world_size,
            join=True,

>         )

Reviewer: Can we please add a short conclusion? Something like: 

Conclusion
-----------

In this tutorial, we have learned that Asynchronous Saving with Distributed Checkpoint (DCP) offers an efficient solution to the bottleneck challenges in distributed training. By implementing asynchronous operations, it enhances computational resource utilization, reducing the time and memory costs associated with traditional synchronous checkpointing.

See also:
* Link 1
* Link 2 
* ...

Asynchronous Saving with Distributed Checkpoint (DCP)
=====================================================

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Author:** `Lucas Pasqualin <https://github.com/lucasllc>`__, `Iris Zhang <https://github.com/wz337>`__, `Rodrigo Kumpera <https://github.com/kumpera>`__, `Chien-Chin Huang <https://github.com/fegin>`__

```

Checkpointing is often a bottle-neck in the critical path for distributed training workloads, incurring larger and larger costs as both model and world sizes grow.
One excellent strategy for offsetting this cost is to checkpoint in parallel, asynchronously. Below, we expand the save example
from the `Getting Started with Distributed Checkpoint Tutorial <https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/blob/main/recipes_source/distributed_checkpoint_recipe.rst>`__
to show how this can be integrated quite easily with ``torch.distributed.checkpoint.async_save``.

> **Author**: , `Lucas Pasqualin <https://github.com/lucasllc>`__, `Iris Zhang <https://github.com/wz337>`__, `Rodrigo Kumpera <https://github.com/kumpera>`__, `Chien-Chin Huang <https://github.com/fegin>`__

Reviewer: Moved to the line above
```suggestion
```

One excellent strategy for offsetting this cost is to checkpoint in parallel, asynchronously. Below, we expand the save example
from the `Getting Started with Distributed Checkpoint Tutorial <https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/blob/main/recipes_source/distributed_checkpoint_recipe.rst>`__
to show how this can be integrated quite easily with ``torch.distributed.checkpoint.async_save``.

.. grid:: 2

    .. grid-item-card:: :octicon:`mortar-board;1em;` What you will learn
       :class-card: card-prerequisites

       * How to use DCP to generate checkpoints in parallel
       * Effective strategies to optimize performance

    .. grid-item-card:: :octicon:`list-unordered;1em;` Prerequisites
       :class-card: card-prerequisites

       * PyTorch v2.4.0 or later
       * `Getting Started with Distributed Checkpoint Tutorial <https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/blob/main/recipes_source/distributed_checkpoint_recipe.rst>`__

Asynchronous Checkpointing Overview
------------------------------------
Before getting started with Asynchronous Checkpointing, it's important to understand it's differences and limitations as compared to synchronous checkpointing.

> Speciically:

Reviewer 3: spelling error = "Specifically:"
